[ Creak ]
Ugh!
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
[ Horn honking ]
[ Gasp ]
[Mancunian accent]
Oh, my stars.
Are you all right?
Yeah, I'm fine.
[ Lightning crashes ]
[ Giggling ]
So I've got
something for you.
What?
You kept it?
Of course I kept it.
Why?
Because this exact
leaf had to grow
in that exact way,
in that exact place,
so that precise wind
could tear it
from that
precise branch
and make it fly
into this exact face
at that exact moment.
And if just one of those
tiny, little things
never happened,
I'd never have
met ya.
Which makes this
the most important leaf
in human history.
[ Lightning crashes ]
[ Laughs ]
There!
Go on, kick it.
[ Whistling ]
Oh, my stars!
Are you all right?
Fine. Marvelous.
Refulgent.
Possibly a touch
embarrassed.
That's not dangerous, is it?
What's not?
Embarrassment.
Not usually.
Not to my knowledge.
Good, hey?
Phew!
So sorry. She wants
to be Bryan Robson.
No worries.
My fault.
No harm done.
Hello, there.
Clara.
Ah.
Hello, there,
Clara.
[ Giggle ]
She's just a girl.
How can she be?
[ Beep ]
She can't be!
She is!
She's not possible!
♪ Dr. Who 7x07 ♪
The Rings of Akhaten
Original Air Date on April 6, 201
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
♪
[ TARDIS engines ]
[ TARDIS door squeaks
open, closes ]
[ Doorbell rings
incessantly ]
So we're moving,
through actual time.
[Chuckle]
So what's it made of?
Time.
I mean, if you can just
row right through it,
it's got to be made of
stuff, like jam's
made of strawberries.
So what's made of?
Well, not strawberries,
no. No no no.
That would be
unacceptable.
And we can go
anywhere.
Within reason. Well,
I say "reason"...
So we could go
backwards in time.
And space, yes.
And forwards in time.
And space, totally.
So where do you
want to go, hey?
What do you want
to see?
I don't know. Do you know
when somebody asks you
"What's your favorite
book?" And, straightaway,
you forget every single
book that you've ever read?
No, totally not.
Well, it's a thing
that...happens.
And? Back
to the question.
Okay. So...
So...So...
So, I'd like to see --
I would like to see --
what I would like
to see is...
Something awesome.
[ Snaps fingers ]
[ Engines engage ]
Now, can you feel the
light on your eyelids?
Mm-hmm.
That is the light
of an alien sun.
Forward a couple
of steps.
Okay.
Are you ready?
Yes.
No.
Welcome to
the Rings
of Akhaten.
It's...
Yeah, it is,
it so completely is,
but wait, there is more.
More what?
Wait wait wait.
In about 5, 4,
3, 2...
What is it?
The Pyramid of the
Rings of Akhaten.
It's a holy site for the
Sun-singers of Akhat.
The who of what?
Seven Worlds, orbiting
the same star,
all of them sharing
the belief that
life in the universe
originated here,
on that planet.
All life?
In the universe.
Did it?
Well,
that's what
they believe.
It's a nice story.
Can we see it?
Up close.
[ Chuckle ]
[ Engines ]
Ha!
[ Creature clucks ]
[ Speaking
local language ]
I can't pay for that!
[ Laughs ]
Where are they from?
Oh! You know, the
local system, mostly.
And what do I
call them?
Well, let's see --
ah, there go some
Panbabylonians.
A Lugal-Irra-Kush.
Some Lucanians.
A Wholivu.
Ah. [Speaking
creature's language]
Huh. Huh.
Huah!
That chap's a Terraberserker
of the Cadonian Belt.
You don't see many
of them around anymore.
Ha-ho!
That's
an Ultramancer!
You know,
I forget how much
I like it here.
We should come here
more often.
You've been here
before?
Yes! Yes, yes, I came
here a long time ago
with my granddaughter.
Hang on!
Whoa.
[ Giggle ]
Mmm!
Exotic fruits
of some description.
Right, nontoxic,
nonhallucinogenic,
high in
free radicals
and low in other stuff,
I shouldn't wonder.
No?
So why is
everyone here?
Ah, for the Festival
of Offerings.
Takes place every
thousand years or so,
when the rings align.
It's quite a big thing,
locally, like...
Pancake Tuesday.
Oh!
[ Snarl ]
[ Barking ]
Um, Doctor.
[ Bark ]
[ Yapping ]
What's happening?
Why's it angry?
This isn't an "it".
It's a "she".
Dor'een, meet Clara.
Clara, meet dor'een.
Dor'een?
Loose translation.
She sounds a bit grumpy,
but she's a total love,
actually, aren't you?
Yes, you are. You know,
actually, she's just
asking you if we fancy
renting a moped. Rranh!
[ Bark ]
[ Snarl ]
R-r-ruff!
[ Bark ]
So how much
does it cost?
Not money.
Something valuable.
Sentimental value.
A photograph,
love letter,
something like that.
That's what's used
fro currency here.
Psychometry --
objects
psychically imprinted
with their history.
The more treasured
they are,
the more value they hold.
That's horrible.
It's better than using
bits of paper.
Then you pay.
With what?
You're
1,000 years old.
You must have something
you care about.
Ooh. Ha!
[ Laughs ]
Doctor!
Ooh!
Hi.
Are you okay?
Have you seen her?
Who?
The Queen of Years.
[ Liquid drips ]
Hello?
[ Clang ]
[ Gasp ]
[ Scampering
footsteps ]
[ Gasp ]
Hey.
Are you okay?
Are you lost?
Aah!
[ Gasp ]
[ Laughs ]
Are you
all right?
What are
you doing?
Hiding.
Oh. Why?
You don't know me?
Sorry.
Actually, no.
So why did you
follow me?
To help.
You look lost.
I don't
believe you.
I've got no idea
who you might be.
I've never been
here before.
I've never been anywhere
like here before.
I just saw
a little girl
who looked like
she needed help.
Really?
Really really.
Can you help me?
That's why
I'm still here.
Because I need
to hide.
[Whispered hiss]
Merry.
Where are you,
Merry?
I know
the perfect box.
Merry.
Where are you,
Merry?
[ Hiss ]
Merry.
Merry!
[ Voices nearby ]
[ Gasp ]
[ Chatting
in local language ]
[ Whistling ]
[ Creature
snarls ]
What's this?
A spaceshippy thing.
Timey spacey.
It's teeny.
You wait.
[ Doors rattle ]
Oh, come on.
What's wrong?
I don't know.
I don't think
it likes me.
[Knocks] Come on!
Let me in!
Hey! Hey,
little girl!
My name's Merry.
[ Scampers ]
Ahem.
So, what's
happenin'?
Someone trying
to hurt you?
No.
I'm just scared.
Of what?
Getting it wrong.
Okay, can you pretend
like I'm totally
a space alien
and explain?
I'm Merry Galel.
Really not local,
sorry.
The Queen of Years?
They chose me
when I was a baby,
the day the last
Queen of Years died.
Okay.
I'm the vessel
of our history.
I know every chronicle,
every poem,
every legend,
every song.
Every single one?
Bli-mey,
I hated history.
Now, I have to sing a song
in front of everyone,
a special song.
I have to sing it
to a God.
I'm really scared.
[ Breathy
chuckle ]
Everyone's scared
when they're little.
I used to be terrified
of getting lost.
I used to have
nightmares about it.
And then,
I got lost.
Blackpool beach,
bank holiday Monday,
about 10 billion people.
I was about six.
My worst nightmare,
come true.
What happened?
My world ended,
my heart broke.
And then my mum
found me.
[ Laughs ]
We had fish & chips
and she drove me home
and she tucked me up
and she told me a story.
Ellie: Doesn't matter
where you are --
in the jungle
or the desert
or on the moon --
however lost
you might feel,
you'll never
really be lost,
not really,
because I will
always be here
and I will always
come and find you.
Every single time.
Every
single time.
And you were never
scared again?
Oh, I was scared
lots of times, but,
never of being lost.
So, this special song,
what are you scared
of, exactly?
Getting it wrong.
Making grandfather
angry.
And do you think
you'll get it wrong?
Because I don't.
I don't think you'll
get it wrong.
I think you,
Merry Galel,
will get it very,
very right.
Oh.
[ Laughs ]
What have you
been doing?
Exploring.
Where are
we going now?!
♪ Sleep
♪ my precious
♪ king
♪ lay
♪ down
♪ my
♪ warrior
[ whoosh ]
♪ Rest now
♪ my king
Shh! Shh!
Sorry, sorry.
Excuse me.
Sorry. Excuse me.
Sorry. Sorry.
Ahem.
Are we even supposed
to be here?
Shh!
But are we?
Shhhh!
Sorry.
[ Grumble ]
♪ A...A...A...
♪ ...kha...
♪ ...ten
♪ lay down
♪ my king
♪ sleep
♪ now
♪ eternal
♪ sleep,
my precious ♪
♪ king
♪ lay
♪ down
♪ old God of A...
♪ ...khaten
They're singing
to the mummy
in the temple.
They call it
the "Old God",
sometimes
"Grandfather".
♪ Old God of
♪ Akhaten
What are they
singing?
"The Long Song,"
a lullaby
without end
to feed
the old God,
keep him asleep.
It's been going for
millions of years,
Chorister handing
over to Chorister,
generation after
generation
after generation.
♪ Akhaten
[ creature
cooing ]
What are they doing?
These are offerings,
gifts of value,
mementos to feed
the old God.
[ Laughs ]
♪ Old God of
♪ old God of
♪ old God of,
old God of ♪
♪ sleep
♪ my precious
king ♪
♪ Akhaten
[ laughs ]
♪ Lay down
♪ my
♪ warrior
♪ lay
♪ lay down
♪ my king
♪ Akhaten
♪ old God of
♪ old God of A...
♪ Akha--
♪ A--
[ ruffle-rumble ]
[ Gasp ]
♪ Old God
♪ protect us
♪ old
♪ God
♪ protect us
Ah!
Okay, what's happening?
Is that supposed to happen?
Help!
Is anybody going to
do something?
Excuse me, is somebody
going to help her?
[ Crying out ]
Why are we
walking away?!
We can't just
walk away.
This is my fault.
I talked her
into doing this.
Listen, there is one thing
you need to know about
traveling with me --
well, one thing,
apart from the blue box
and the two hearts --
We don't walk away.
[ Gasping ]
[ Barking ]
[ Snarling ]
I need something
precious.
Well, you must have
something. All the places
you've seen, there
must be something.
This,
and I don't want
to give it away because
it comes in handy.
You're 1,000 years old and
that's it, your spanner?
Screwdriver.
It's my mum's.
[ Low growl ]
[ Gasping ]
[ Crying out ]
Please!
Aah!
[ Crying out ]
Wait! Wait!
Aah! Aah!
Aaaaah!
[ Gasping ]
Okay, time to let go.
I can't.
Clara, you have to.
Why?
Because it really hurts.
Sorry.
[ Pulsing ]
Oh, that is
interesting,
a frequency-modulated
acoustic lock. The key
changes 10 million zillion
squillion times a second.
Can you open it?
Technically, no.
In reality?
Also no.
But, still, let's
give it a stab.
Ah!
[ Pulsing ]
♪ Do not wake from
slumber, old God ♪
♪ never wake
from slumber ♪
How can they just
stand there and watch?
Because this is sacred ground.
And she's a child.
Yeah, and he's a God.
Well, he is to them, anyway.
♪ Do not wake from
slumber ♪
♪ Old God
♪ do not wake
from slumber ♪
Rest your weary,
holy head
♪ don't cast
our lives asunder ♪
♪ do not wake
♪ from slumber
Old God ♪
I don't know what
to do next.
♪ Never wake
from slumber ♪
What happens?
Aaaah!
Merry!
Merry, hold on!
We'll be there soon!
Doctor.
Yes, yes yes yes yes yes yes. Oh, hello.
"Hello" what?
Sonic clocked on to the acoustic tumblers.
Meaning?
Meaning! I get to
do this --
[ resonating ]
[ Pulsing ]
Ah!
Hello, there.
I'm the Doctor.
And you met Clara.
She was supposed to be
having a nice day out.
Still...
It's early, yet.
Are you coming, then?
Did I mention that the door
is immensely heavy?
Please!
You'll wake him.
Really quite
extraordinarily heavy.
[ Pulsing ]
Clara.
Uh-huh.
♪ Old God
Merry,
we need to leave.
No. Go away!
Not without you.
You said I wouldn't get it wrong,
and then I got it wrong and,
now, this has happened!
Look what's happened!
You didn't get it wrong.
How do you know?!
You don't know anything.
You have to go.
Go now, or he'll
eat us all!
Well, he's ugly.
But, you know,
to be honest...
♪ Slumber
♪ do not wake
from slumber ♪
I don't think
he looks big enough.
Not our meat,
our souls.
Aah!
♪ Do not wake from
slumber, Old God ♪
♪ never wake
from slumber ♪
He doesn't want you.
He wants me.
If you don't leave, he'll
eat you all up, too.
Yes, and you don't
want that, do you?
You want us to walk
out of this
really quite astonishingly
heavy door
and never
come back.
Yes.
I see! Right.
Clara's right.
Absolutely never
gonna happen.
[ Pulsing ]
[ Humming ]
Did you just
lock us in?
Yep.
With the soul-eating monster.
And is there actually
a way to get out?
What, before it
eats our souls?
Ideally, yeah.
Possibly. Probably.
There usually
seems to be.
♪ Don't cast
our lives asunder ♪
Doctor, why is he
still singing?
♪ Rest your weary,
holy head ♪
He's trying to sing the
Old God back to sleep,
but that's not
going to happen.
He's waking up, mate.
He's coming, ready or not.
You want to run.
♪ Head and --
That's it, then.
Song's over.
The song is over.
My name is
Chorister Rezbethix
and "The Long Song"
ended with me.
That's it, then,
song's over.
[ Pulsing ]
[ Growling ]
Aha! Oh, look at that!
You've woken him!
It's awake?
What's it doing?
Oh, you know,
having a nice stretch.
No, we didn't
wake him
and you didn't
wake him, either.
He's waking because
it's his time to wake.
And feed. On you, apparently,
on your story.
She didn't say "story",
she said "soul"!
Same thing.
The soul's made of
stories, not atoms.
Everything that ever
happened to us --
people we loved;
People we lost;
people we found again,
against all the odds.
He threatens to wake,
they offer him
a pure soul, the soul
of the Queen of Years.
Stop it,
you're scaring her!
Good. She
should be scared.
She's sacrificing
herself.
She should know
what that means.
Do you know what
it means, Merry?
A God chose me.
It's not a God. It'll
feed on your soul,
but that doesn't
make it a God.
It is a vampire.
And you don't need to
give yourself to him.
Hey, do you mind
if I tell you a story,
one you might not
have heard?
All the elements
in your body
were forged many,
many millions
of years ago
in the heart
of a faraway star
that exploded
and died.
That explosion scattered
those elements
across the desolations
of deep space.
After so,
so many millions
of years,
these elements
came together
to form new stars
and new planets
and on and on
it went.
The elements came together
and burst apart, forming
"shoes and ships
and sealing-wax"
and "cabbages
and kings".
Until,
eventually,
they came together
to make you.
You are unique
in the universe
there is only one
Merry Galel.
And there will
never be another.
Getting rid
of that existence
isn't
a sacrifice,
it is a waste.
So,
if I don't,
then everyone
else...?
Will be fine.
[ Moaning ]
How?
There's
always a way.
You promise?
Cross my hearts.
Clara: "Having
a nice stretch"?!
[ Growl, rumbling ]
Something's coming.
What's coming?
The Vigil.
And what's
the Vigil?
If the Queen of Years is
unwilling to be feasted upon...
Yes?
It's their job to feed
her to Grandfather.
Merry.
I'm sorry!
Don't you dare.
Yeah. Stay back. I'm armed!
With a screwdriver.
Aah!
[ growling ]
Merry.
[ Growl ]
[ Shuddering ]
The Doctor:
Clara.
Sonic.
[ Pulsing ]
Aaaah!
You know
all the stories.
You must know if there's
another way out.
Uh...
There's a tale,
a secret song,
"The Thief of the Temple
and the Nimmer's Door."
And the secret songs
open the secret door?
How does it go?
Can you sing it?
♪ A...
Go!
Argh!
Doctor!
Where are you,
Merry?
[ Pulsing ]
[ Shriek ]
Where are you?
There she is.
[ Rattle ]
Clara:
Where did they go?
Grandfather's awake.
They're of no
function anymore.
Well, you could sound
happier about it.
[ Rumbling ]
Actually, I think I may
have made a bit of
a tactical boo-boo. More of
a semantics mixup, really.
What boo-boo?
I thought the Old God
was Grandfather,
but it wasn't,
it was just
Grandfather's
alarm clock.
Sorry, bit lost. Who's the
old God? Is there an old God?
Unfortunately, yes.
[ Rumbling ]
Oh, my stars.
What do we do?
Against that?
I don't know.
Do you know?
Any ideas?
You promised.
I did. I --
I did promise.
He'll eat us all.
He'll spread across
the system,
consuming
the Seven Worlds,
and, when there's
no more to eat,
he'll embark
on a new odyssey
among the stars.
[ Rumbling ]
I say leg it.
Leg it where,
exactly?
Dunno.
Lake District?
Oh, the Lake
District's lovely.
Let's definitely go there.
We can eat scones.
They do great scones
in 1927.
You're going to
fight it, aren't you?
Regrettably, yes,
I think I may be
about to do that.
It's really big.
I've seen bigger.
Really?
Are you joking?
It's massive.
I'm staying with you.
No, you're not.
Yes, I am. I can...assist.
No, you can't.
What about
that stuff you said?
"We don't walk away."
No.
We don't walk away,
but when we're
holding on to
something precious,
we run,
we run and run,
fast as we can,
and we don't
stop running
until we are out from
under the shadow.
Now,
off you pop.
Take the moped.
I'll walk.
Any ideas?
No, didn't think so.
Righty-ho, then.
Lordy!
Isn't he
frightened?
I think he is.
I think he's
very frightened.
I want to help.
So do I.
♪ Rest
♪ now
♪ my
♪ warrior
♪ rest
Okay, then.
That's what I'll do.
I'll tell you
a story.
♪ Oh oh oh oh
♪ oh
♪ there
[crowd joins in]
♪ sleep
♪ wake up
♪ and let the cloak
♪ of life
♪ cling
to your bones ♪
Can you hear them?
All these people
who lived in terror
of you and
your judgment,
all these people
whose ancestors
devoted themselves,
sacrificed themselves,
to you.
Can you hear them
singing?
♪ Sleep
♪ wake up
The Doctor: Oh, you like
to think you're a God.
But you're not a God,
you're just a parasite,
eaten out with
jealousy and envy
and longing for
the lives of others.
You feed on them,
on the memory
of love and loss
and birth and death
and joy and sorrow,
so...
So...
Come on, them,
take mine.
Take my memories.
But I hope you've got
a big appetite
because I've lived
a long life
and I've seen
a few things.
♪ Wake up
♪ and let the cloak
♪ of life
The Doctor:
I walked away
from the Last Great
Time War.
I marked the passing
of the Time Lords.
I saw the birth
of the universe
and I watched
as time ran out,
moment by moment,
until nothing
remained --
no time,
no space,
just me!
I walked in universes
where the laws of physics
were devised by the
mind of a madman!
♪ Oh oh oh
and I've watched
universes freeze
and creations burn.
I have seen things
you wouldn't believe,
I have lost things
you will never
understand,
and I know things,
Secrets that
must never be told,
knowledge that must
never be spoken,
knowledge that will
make parasite Gods blaze!
So come o...n,
then!
Take it!
Take it all, baby!
Have it!
You have it all!
♪ Wake up
♪ wake
♪ up
[ explosion ]
And I will always
come and find you.
Every single time.
We don't walk away.
Euh.
I won't feed you.
[ Explosion ]
[ Gasp ]
Still hungry?
Well, I brought
something for you.
This.
The most important leaf
in human history.
The most
important leaf
in human history.
It's full
of stories.
Full of history.
[ Laughs ]
And full of a future
that never got lived,
days that
should've been,
that never were,
passed on to me.
This leaf isn't
just the past,
it's a whole future
that never happened.
There are millions
and millions
of unlived days
for every day we live,
an infinity,
all the days
that never came.
And these were
all my mum's.
Well!
Come on, then.
Eat up.
[ Crackle ]
Are you full?
I expect so.
Because there's quite
a difference,
isn't there?
Between what was
and what
should've been.
There's an awful
lot of one,
but there's an infinity
of the other.
And infinity's
too much,
even for your
appetite.
[ Whoosh ]
[ Engines ]
Home again!
Jiggety-jig.
[ Dog barks ]
It looks different.
Nope. Same house, same
city, same planet.
Ha-hey! Same day,
actually, huh?
Not bad.
Hole in one!
You were there,
at mum's grave.
You were watching.
What were you
doing there?
I don't know, I was
just...making sure.
Of what?
You remind me
of someone.
Who?
Someone who died.
Well, whoever she was,
I'm not her,
okay?
If you want me to travel
with you, that's fine.
But as me.
I'm not
a bargain-basement stand-in
for somebody else.
I'm not going to
compete with a ghost.
No.
They wanted you
to have it.
Who did?
Everyone.
All the people
you saved.
You,
no one else,
Clara.
Alarm!
How many of us
are left?
12.
This sub's stuffed
with nuclear missiles.
What are you going to do
when he finds that out?
Bring her up!
Who's there?
We are all that stands
between this creature
and the destruction
of the world.
He's arming
the warheads!
Clara, get out
of there. Get out!
I will blow
this sub up
before you can even
reach that button.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org